README.md, before:

# chunk

`chunk` is a small CLI (command-line interface) tool that applies **structured patches** to a source tree.

Patches are written in the **chunk v2** YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language) format, described in [`docs/CHUNK.md`](CHUNK.md).  
All operations are applied **transactionally**: on any error, changes are rolled back.

---

## Features

- Applies patches in chunk v2 YAML format  
- File operations: create and delete files  
- Text operations using robust markers (tolerant to whitespace changes)  
- C++ and Python symbol-level operations (replace class or method)  
- Transactional apply with automatic backup and rollback  

See [`docs/CHUNK.md`](CHUNK.md) or run:

```bash
chunk --help
````

for format details and examples.

---

## Usage

Basic usage:

```bash
chunk path/to/patch.yml
```

Notes:

* Paths in the patch are relative to the current working directory.
* If a marker, class, or method cannot be found (or is ambiguous), the patch is aborted and all affected files are restored.

---

## Install Linux

Requirements:

* CMake ≥ 3.14
* C++17 compiler (for example `g++` or `clang++`)

Build and install:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk
mkdir build && cd build

cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build .
cmake --install .
```

By default the binary is installed into `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/bin`
(usually `/usr/local/bin` on most distributions).

---

## Install Windows

### Visual Studio

Requirements:

* Visual Studio 2019 or newer with C++ support
* CMake ≥ 3.14

Build and install:

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk

cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 17 2022" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build --config Release
cmake --install build --config Release
```

The installer will place `chunk.exe` into `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}\bin`
(unless you override `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`).

### MinGW / MSYS2

In a MinGW MSYS2 shell:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk
mkdir build && cd build

cmake .. -G "MinGW Makefiles" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build .
cmake --install .
```

---

## Tests

After configuring the build:

```bash
cmake --build . --target chunk_tests
./chunk_tests
```

---

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add support for --stdin and --paste options in apply_chunk_main; enhance README and tests

README.md, after:

# chunk

`chunk` is a small CLI (command-line interface) tool that applies **structured patches** to a source tree.

Patches are written in the **chunk v2** YAML (YAML Ain't Markup Language) format, described in [`docs/CHUNK.md`](CHUNK.md).
All operations are applied **transactionally**: on any error, changes are rolled back.

---
## Features

- Applies patches in chunk v2 YAML format
- File operations: create and delete files
- Text operations using robust markers (tolerant to whitespace changes)
- C++ and Python symbol-level operations (replace class or method)
- Transactional apply with automatic backup and rollback

See [`docs/CHUNK.md`](CHUNK.md) or run:

```bash
chunk --help
```

for format details and examples.

---
## Usage

Basic usage:

```bash
chunk path/to/patch.yml
```

You can also read a patch from standard input:

```bash
generate_patch | chunk --stdin
wl-paste | chunk --stdin
```

Or from the system clipboard:

```bash
chunk --paste
```

On Linux and macOS, `chunk` will try (in this order): `wl-paste`,
`xclip -selection clipboard -o`, `xsel -b`, `pbpaste`.

On Windows it uses:

```powershell
powershell -command Get-Clipboard
```

Notes:

* Paths in the patch are relative to the current working directory.
* If a marker, class, or method cannot be found (or is ambiguous), the patch is aborted and all affected files are restored.

---
## Install Linux

Requirements:

* CMake ≥ 3.14
* C++17 compiler (for example `g++` or `clang++`)

Build and install:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk
mkdir build && cd build

cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build .
cmake --install .
```

By default the binary is installed into `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/bin`
(usually `/usr/local/bin` on most distributions).

---

## Install Windows
### Visual Studio

Requirements:

* Visual Studio 2019 or newer with C++ support
* CMake ≥ 3.14

Build and install:

```powershell
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk

cmake -S . -B build -G "Visual Studio 17 2022" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build build --config Release
cmake --install build --config Release
```

The installer will place `chunk.exe` into `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}\bin`
(unless you override `CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX`).

### MinGW / MSYS2

In a MinGW MSYS2 shell:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mirmik/chunk.git
cd chunk
mkdir build && cd build

cmake .. -G "MinGW Makefiles" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cmake --build .
cmake --install .
```

---

## Tests

After configuring the build:

```bash
cmake --build . --target chunk_tests
./chunk_tests
```

---

## License

MIT
